# Non-negativity certificates for polynomials

Hi there! 👋 Welcome to the repository for my final degree project as part of the dual degree in Mathematics and Computer Science.

In this project, I explored topics related to certificates of non-negativity for multivariate polynomials. Below, you can find a summary of the main results:

## Main Contributions

1. **Rational Certificates of Non-Negativity on Semialgebraic Subsets of Cylinders**  
   A generalization of the work developed in [this paper](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0022404923002785) by Gabriela Jeronimo and Daniel Perrucci.

2. **Sum of Squares Algorithm**  
   The implementation of an algorithm that determines whether a rational univariate/multivariate polynomial is a sum of squares and, if so, provides a decomposition.

3. **Quadratic Module Algorithm**  
   The implementation of an algorithm that determines whether a rational univariate/multivariate polynomial belongs to the quadratic module generated by a given set of polynomials. Again, if this is the case, such a decomposition in the quadratic module is provided.

4. **Effective Test for Archimedeanity of Quadratic Modules**  
   A practical result to test the archimedeanity of quadratic modules, along with its implementation.

5. **Parallelization and Performance Evaluation**  
   The code related to the quadratic module algorithm has been parallelized and tested on the MareNostrum V supercomputer at the Barcelona Supercomputing Center. This includes performance evaluation and scalability analysis.

## Repository Contents

- **Report**: A comprehensive document detailing the results of this project.
- **Code**: Implementation of the algorithms mentioned above, including corresponding tests.

## Feedback and Contact

Feel free to reach out if you have any comments, suggestions, or issues! You can contact me via email at [joelhurtadomoreno20@gmail.com](mailto:joelhurtadomoreno20@gmail.com).

---

Thank you for visiting this repository! I hope you find the work useful. 😊
